A simple little Super Melee-ish space-duel game.

Basically, set up a good system for people to fight, with various ships and
weapons.  Maybe with customizable ships and an economy.

Add computer players (a la MW instant-action)
Add network play.
Add co-operative play.
Add mission play.
And so on...


Could end up being a big mmog... either just an arena, a la FPS stuff, or real
wide-ranging spaces.  Economy, pirates, rankings...


TODO:
*Make proper engine/weapon points, maybe with thrust/fire animations.
*Make weapons, shots, weapon behaviors, and death animations.
*Collision detection: maybe a quadtree, with each object being collided
against it's children (only direct children?).  Hard to modify though,
especially considering balancing, and probably not too fast to build.  Maybe a
grid, each object being picked into one or more overlapping squares and
collided against other objects inside it.  That sounds better...
Special handling for points, though?

*Do weapons
*Should sprites animate by frame or by time?  By time wouldn't be that hard,
really...  Might be worthwhile to try it out.


NAME
Melee Groove?  Apoc?  Melee?  Zap?  Starset?  Groove?  Starrun?  Dark Galaxy?
Ascender/Ascention?  Kestrel Strike?  Pandora?  Desperate Dance?  Zenith?
Dark Zenith?  Deperate Zenith?  Cosmic Zenith?
Maybe just Zenith...
Starrunner, I think.  It sucks, though.
Starchaser?  I kinda like that.
Voidrunner!  Yes!


GAMEPLAY
This game is made pretty much soley for online play.  The question is the
extent.  It's pretty simple to make it take up to 8 or 16 players.  It's a lot
harder to make a semi-persistant MMO world, but also a lot more interesting.
We shall start with 8-16 players, and add computer players if possible.
There may be a rating system, so the winner gets more cash to buy better ships
and so on.  Or at least a tournement system that functions thus; it'd make a
good single-player mode.  If such an economy ends up existing, then it may be
a good idea for destroyed ships to drop cash, componants and powerups.

There can be several modes to the group-play mode.  Free for all, capture the
flag, king of the hill, four bases (a "base" at each corner each player/team
has to touch), siege (free for all, but with one side heavily fortified)...


ENVIRONMENT
The environment is... hmm.  Well, there's a few options I need to decide on.
Either space is bounded, or it wraps, or it's infinate.
Not infinate.  So, either bounded or wrap.  That can be a gameplay or map
option, I suppose.
There are various hazards, a la SC2, Inner Space and Subspace.  Floating
wossnames, orbiting turrets, hazard blocks, non-hazard blocks, teleporters,
etc.


SHIPS
Ships have various statistics.  You can customize ships, selecting various
componants.  It's a matter of balance and trade-offs.
XXX: Max speed?  Perhaps implemented as a drag factor...  It really should be
there, or else things just get too silly.  Probably ends up being a
(non-linear) function of acceleration or mass or something...

Ship Statistics: Mass, engine power, space, structural hp, armor hp, shield
hp, battery, weapons, devices, turn rate, energy regen
Ship Componants: Chassis, shield, armor, engine, weapons, batteries,
generators, specials

Chassis: The basic frame of the ship.  Determines base mass, turn rate, space,
and structural HP.
Shield: Protection.  Absorbs a certain percentage of incoming damage, passes
the rest on to the armor.  Regenerates, taking energy to do so.  Some weapons
may penetrate shields, etc.
Armor: Protection.  Just takes brute damage.  When overwhelmed, passes damage
on to the structure.  When structure is destroyed, you go boom.
Engine: The ship's primary drive.  Determines engine power, uses energy to
function.  There are probably two broad types, torches (high energy, high
power) and cruisers (low energy, v. low power).
Weapons: Duh.  There's a variety, basically falling into the categories of
beam, bolt, and missile.  Generally takes energy to fire and has a certain
refire time.
Batteries: Store power for weapons, shields, weapons, etc.
Generators: Generates power.
Specials: Special things like targetting computers, improved sensors,
whatever.


CHASSISES
The chassis is the basic frame of the ship.  Different chassises (chassi?) are
suited for different things.  The turn rate is a multiplier; a ship's turn
rate is (acceleration * multiplier) degrees per second.  When the structural
HP of a ship is depleted, it is destroyed.
Each chassis can hold componants of each type taking up a maximum space of X,
where X depends on the chassis.  This is the main way chassises are different
from each other.
Small ships are <50t, medium are <100t, large are <150t.

Name: Fighter	Size: Small	HP: 50		Mass: 30t	Turn: 2.0
Engine: 30	Shield: 15	Armor: 20	Weapon: 20	Battery: 25
Generator: 20	Special: 15	Total: 145
Basic all-around light ship, fairly solid.

Name: Eggshell	Size: Small	HP: 10		Mass: 5t	Turn: 3.5
Engine: 45	Shield: 10	Armor: 5	Weapon: 20	Battery: 20
Generator: 15	Special: 5	Total: 120
Tiny, fast, maneuverable, fragile.  That's about it.

Name: Striker	Size: Medium	HP: 80		Mass: 65t	Turn: 1.0
Engine: 90	Shield: 30	Armor: 25 	Weapon: 45	Battery: 40
Generator: 45	Special: 30	Total: 285
Hit-and-run, baby.  Fast, rather fragile.  Not a bad sniper, probably.  Less
monomaniacally sparse as the Eggshell.

Name: Sneak	Size: Medium	HP: 100		Mass: 85t	Turn: 1.5
Engine: 65	Shield: 40	Armor: 15	Weapon: 30	Battery: 50
Generator: 50	Special: 65	Total: 315
A support ship.  Not too great in terms of weapons or sturdiness, but good
batteries and generators, and lots of space for special equipment.

Name: Brawler	Size: Large	HP: 160		Mass: 140t	Turn: 1.2
Engine: 80	Shield: 65	Armor: 120	Weapon: 70	Battery: 60
Generator: 45	Special: 15	Total: 455
Big, mean, nasty, slow.  Heavy on armor and weapons, light on engines and
specials, moderate on batteries, generators and shields.  Stay out of it's
way.

Name: Starset	Size: Large	HP: 125		Mass: 130t	Turn: 1.4
Engine: 90	Shield: 60	Armor: 60 	Weapon: 60	Battery: 60
Generator: 60	Special: 30	Total: 420
Perfectly well-rounded.  How good a ship this actually becomes is yet to be
seen.

Name: 	Size: 	HP: 		Mass: 	Turn: 
Engine: 	Shield: 	Armor: 	Weapon: 	Battery: 
Generator: 	Special: 	Total: 


ENGINES
Engines propel your ship, and use energy to do so.  You can put on as many
engines as you want, within the size limit.  The thrust is in tons per second,
energy is units per second.  The thrust equation is the same as real life;
acceleration = thrust / mass.
Note that the T/E number is the thrust per energy ratio.  T/M is thrust per
mass, and T/S is thrust per size.  That REALLY lets you see the difference
between engines.
XXX: The difference may be too extreme...

XXX: There is currently NO speed cap!  There should be one, because otherwise
things just have too much potential for breakage.  It's not even hard to get
to insane speeds, just bounce back and forth between the walls of the realm.
The cap may be high, but it should be there.  Perhaps dependant on the hull,
engines, mass, or some interaction thereof.

The basic trade-off is this: There's the high-thrust engines, which are really
inefficient but give very high power for space and tonnage.  Then there's the
low-thrust engines which use much less energy but are very big and heavy.

Engine: Torch		Mass: 10t	Size: 5		T/E: 5.0
Thrust: 100t	Energy: 20		T/M: 10.0	T/S: 20.0
Basic brawny drive.

Engine: Booster		Mass: 35t	Size: 20	T/E: 4.0
Thrust: 500t	Energy: 125		T/M: 14.29	T/S: 25
More efficient in terms of thrust per mass and size, but sucks more energy.

Engine: Overthruster	Mass: 60t 	Size: 40	T/E: 3.125
Thrust: 1250t	Energy: 400		T/M: 20.83	T/S: 31.25
This will make you go.  A lot.  Only large ships can mount it though, and it
sucks energy like a pig.

Engine: Skeeter		Mass: 20t  	Size: 10	T/E: 25.0
Thrust: 50t	Energy: 2		T/M: 2.5	T/S: 5.0
Big, heavy, and doesn't produce much thrust.  But man, you can keep it going
forever.

Engine: Streak		Mass: 75t	Size: 35	T/E: 33.3
Thrust: 200t	Energy: 6		T/M: 2.66	T/S: 5.71
More efficient than the Skeeter, but also bigger and heavier.

Engine: Sail		Mass: 150t	Size: 70	T/E: 41.6
Thrust:	500t	Energy: 12		T/M: 3.33	T/S: 7.14
Big, hulking, and unwieldy, but you will not find better efficiency anywhere.

Engine: 		Mass:  	Size: 	T/E: 
Thrust: 	Energy: 		T/M: 	T/S: 



WEAPONS
Things that shoot things.

My instinct really says that I should have as many diverse and interesting
weapons as possible, but my reasonableness says to try to keep it down to a
varied, balanced minimum.  Remember that there IS NOT a progression of weak
weapons to strong weapons like, say, SIS weapons in SC2.  Like the rest of the
game, it's more a matter of balancing weaknesses with strengths.

DD, DOT, AOE, snare, root, guided, unguided, shield/armor piercing,
spreadfire, burst, fragment, mine, web, ...
Do weapons have limited ammo?  If so, it had better regenerate.

Energy is energy taken per shot, or per second if constant fire.  Refire is
how many seconds happen between shots.
D/T is damage per time, D/E is damage per energy

Properties:
Shield piercing means that shields are half as effective against them.
Armor piercing means that it deals half damage to armor and half damage to
structure, but shields stop them completely.
Shield eroding means that the weapon deals it's full damage to shields, but
does not damage anything else.
Armor eroding means that the weapon passes through shields and destroys armor,
but does not damage structure.

Energy, organic, kinetic, explosive.  I was going to originally do a FE-ish
weapons-square here, kinetic -> energy -> organic -> explosive -> kinetic, but
that got kinda silly.  Instead, I made each of the four types have different
weaknesses and strengths, and made a light, medium and heavy weapon for each.

Energy: Short range, high power, high damage, shield eroding
Organic: Short range, low pwer, moderate damage, armor eroding
Kinetic: Long range, low power, low damage, shield piercing
Explosive: Long range, high power, high damage, armor piercing

Note: BALANCE FOR SIZE AND MASS!!!  Smaller weapons must not put out the same
D/T as larger ones!!



Weapon: Scattergun	Mass: 10t	Size: 5		Damage: 2 * 20
Energy: 10	Refire: 1.0	Range: 650	D/T: 40		D/E: 4.0
Mid-range, slow-firing cannon that sprays 20 shots more or less randomly in a
30 degree cone.

Weapon: Pearl		Mass: 30t	Size: 15	Damage: 50
Energy: 25	Refire: 1.0	Range: 1900	D/T: 50		D/E: 2.0
Very long-range, slow-firing cannon

Weapon: Archer		Mass: 55t	Size: 25	Damage: 15
Energy: 12	Refire: 0.40	Range: 1000 	D/T: 37.5	D/E: 1.25
Long range, shield-piercing cannon 

Weapon: Pulser		Mass: 15t	Size: 5		Damage: 10
Energy: 4	Refire: 0.25	Range: 400	D/T: 40		D/E: 2.5
Fairly short range, stutter-fire beam.

Weapon: Blaster		Mass: 50t	Size: 20	Damage: 20
Energy: 18	Refire: 0.3	Range: 250	D/T: 66.6	D/E: 1.1
Short range mauler-cannon

Weapon: Lance		Mass: 80t	Size: 40	Damage: 60
Energy: 30	Refire: 1.0	Range: 350	D/T: 60.0	D/E: 1.6
Short-range shield-eroding beam.  Zap, your shields HURT.

Weapon: Dakkagun	Mass: 5t	Size: 5		Damage: 4 * 3
Energy: 3	Refire: 0.25	Range: 550	D/T: 48		D/E: 4.0
Medium-range, low-energy weapon; fires a spread of 3 bullets, front and 45
degrees left and right.

Weapon: Fist		Mass: 20t	Size: 10	Damage: 120
Energy: 30	Refire: 3.0	Range: 100	D/T: 40		D/E: 4.0
Slow, short range SMACK.

Weapon: Acidgun		Mass: 35t	Size: 15	Damage: 5
Energy: 2	Refire: 0.2	Range: 375	D/T: 25		D/E: 2.5
Fast, short-range, armor-eroding gun.

Weapon: Fragmenter	Mass: 20t	Size: 10	Damage: 5 * 8
Energy: 30	Refire: 1.0	Range: 1150	D/T: 40		D/E: 1.3
Long-range projectile that splinters into 8 fragments when it strikes
something.  Fragments have a range of 80 and do 5 damage each.

Weapon: Torpedo		Mass: 50t	Size: 20	Damage: 50
Energy: 30	Refire: 1.0	Range: 1500	D/T: 50		D/E: 1.6
Fires a bomb that explodes when it strikes something, doing 50 damage to a
radius of 50 spaces.

Weapon: Concussion	Mass: 100t	Size: 50	Damage: 80
Energy: 50	Refire: 1.0	Range: 300	D/T: 80		D/E: 1.6
Fires a powerful, short-range, armor-piercing blast that pushes the enemy
around a bit.  XXX: Is it a missile instead?

Weapon: 		Mass: 	Size: 	Damage: 
Energy: 	Refire: 	Range: 	D/T: 		D/E: 




SHIELDS
Shields are your first line of defence against incoming fire.  They absorb a
percentage of the damage a weapon does, and the rest goes on to armor.
The amount of damage the shield soaks is rounded up.  For instance, if 3
damage is done to a shield with an absorb of 50%, the shield takes 2 damage
and the armor takes 1.
That also means that weapons should never do 1 damage, since they'd just all
get sucked by the shields...  And should at least 1 damage always be passed on
to the armor?
You can only have one type of shields, I'm afraid.
Regen is how much energy it takes to recharge one shield point.

Absorber and regenerative shields...

Shield: Basic		Mass: 10t	Size: 5		Hits: 300
Absorb: 50%	Regen: 3
Your basic barrier shield.

Shield: Heavy		Mass: 15t	Size: 5		Hits: 425
Absorb: 70%	Regen: 5
Heavier, beefier, stronger, slower recharge.

Shield: Light		Mass: 5t	Size: 5		Hits: 175
Absorb: 30%	Regen: 1
Lighter, weaker, more fragile, faster recharge.

Shield: Barrier		Mass: 20t	Size: 5		Hits: 200
Absorb: 95%	Regen: 20
Absorbs almost all damage.  You pay for it though.

Shield: Mighty		Mass: 18t	Size: 5		Hits: 325
Absorb: 60%	Regen: 5
Is immune to shield-piercing and shield-eroding weapons.

Shield: Reflecter	Mass: 20t	Size: 5		Hits: 250
Absorb: 40%	Regen: 4
Has a 12% chance of reflecting any given shot, taking no damage.

Shield: Regenerative	Mass: 20t	Size: 5		Hits: 250
Absorb: 40%	Regen: 0.5
Regenerates pretty damn fast

Shield: 		Mass: t	Size: 		Hits: 
Absorb: 	Regen: 



ARMORS
Armor is your second line of defence; it takes whatever damage the shields
pass through.  It tends to be quite tough and quite heavy.  You cannot have
more than one type of armor at a time.  There is a variety of armor, some of
which produces special effects.
When armor is gone, the ship's structure takes damage.  When the structure is
gone, the ship is destroyed. 

Armor: Basic		Mass: 5t	Size: 5		Hits: 150
Basic armor.  Stops stuff.

Armor: Light		Mass: 2t	Size: 5		Hits: 90
Light armor.  Pretty tough still.

Armor: Heavy		Mass: 8t	Size: 5		Hits: 300
Heavy armor.  REALLY tough.

Armor: Reflective	Mass: 6t	Size: 5		Hits: 130
Reflective armor.  Takes half damage from energy weapons (?).

Armor: Regenerative	Mass: 8t	Size: 5		Hits: 110
Relatively weak, but regenerates 1 hp every 5 seconds (?).

Armor: Emissive		Mass: 10t	Size: 5		Hits: 120
Basically, has damage reduction 5.  The first 5 damage of each hit is
harmlessly dissipated, but the armor always takes at least 1 damage.
Armor-piercing and armor-eroding weapons ignore the damage-soak.

Armor: Interlocking	Mass: 6t	Size: 5		Hits: 145
Is immune to armor-penetrating and armor-eroding attacks.

Armor: 		Mass: 	Size: 		Hits: 



BATTERIES
Batteries are pretty damn simple.  They store energy.

Battery: Basic		Mass: 3t	Size: 5		Capacity: 200
Basic battery

Battery: Light		Mass: 1t	Size: 5		Capacity: 125

Battery: Heavy		Mass: 5t	Size: 5		Capacity: 300



GENERATORS
Generators are, likewise, quite simple.  You can mix-n-match all you want.

Generator: Normal	Mass: 5t	Size: 5		Genrate: 20/sec

Generator: Light	Mass: 2t	Size: 5		Genrate: 12/sec

Generator: Heavy	Mass: 10t	Size: 5		Genrate: 27/sec

Generator: Burst	Mass: 8t	Size: 5		Genrate: 100/4sec

Generator:		Mass:		Size:		Genrate:

SPECIALS
Anything else.  They generally take a certain amount of energy to use.

Cloaking device
Makes you invisible on-screen

ECM
Makes you invisible to radar

Jammer
Makes radar fuzz out in a particular area

Penetrating scanner
Gives more info about target, makes ECM and Jammer less effective

C3 system?
Lets you use teammates' radar...

Targetting computer
Displays a leading-target reticle

Auto-tracking system
Weapons aim automatically toward the targetting comp's leading-target reticle

Skimdrive
A short-duration booster, pretty much phases you out while in use; can't hit
things, can't be hit, can't fire.

Chargebase
Lets you transfer energy to other ships

Repair drone
Repairs structure and some armor

Point-defence flak
Short-range gun to shoot incoming fire

Point-defence laser
Medium-range gun to shoot incoming fire

Tractor beam
Pulls things

Pressor beam
Pushes things

Blink drive
You dissapear and re-appear some distance away; teleporter.

Sensor upgrade
You see further

Reverse thrusters
You can thrust in reverse; 1/2 power and energy, good for maneuvering.

Turning jets
Increases the turn rate multiplier by, say, 0.5




HAZARDS
Various things that exist in space and get in your way, making life more
dangerous, or at least more interesting.

Blocks: A block that's either immobile or perhaps moving on a fixed path;
collision hazard.  Can be indestructable.

Rocks: A block that's moving about randomly as per physics.  Can be
indestructable.

Mines: A drifting bomb that explodes upon proximity.

Seeker mines: A drifting missile that locks onto something within proximity.

Turrets: A drifting, autonomous platform bearing one of a variety of weapons.

Wormholes: Random or fixed gates to another wormhole location; sucks things
in, and may be damaging.

Field generators: A network of interlocking lasers, hazardous to pass through.

Gravwells: Areas that either suck you to the center or push you away.

Webs: Driftnets that slow you down.

Clouds: Areas of dust and gas that slow you down and erode your defences,
diffuse and detonate weapons, confuse sensors, and are generally annoying.

Generators: Things that wander around and create other hazards.

Hulks: Remains of other ships, mundane and arcane.  May have still-active
weapons or explosives on board.

Bumpers: Devices that bounce you away very suddenly, though doing no damage.



POWERUPS:
The opposite of hazards.  These things exist to make life easier for you.
They are, of course, much rarer.  They all last 30 seconds, except the
recharges, which are permenant.

Energy boost: Doubles your energy
Energy recharge: Refills your energy
Charge boost: Doubles your energy recharge
Engine boost: Doubles your thrust
Shield recharge: Doubles your shield recharge rate
Shield boost: Doubles your shield hits
Weapon boost: Doubles your weapon damage
Armor boost: Doubles your armor hits
Musou rage: You are invulnerable, all your weapons do 2x damage and you have
2x energy and recharge.  Lasts 15 seconds.




NETWORK JUNK:
Here we document and describe the network protocol.
Basically, how it works is this.  The server manages the realm, the game
world, and all the interactions thereof.  The clients connect to it, and every
1/4 second or so they get a list of all the objects they have to worry about,
specifying type, location, direction, vector, etc.  In between these updates,
they do their best to guess what's happening, just running basic physics.  If
the server says an object isn't where the client thinks it is, the client
either snaps or slides the object to it's correct location.
Data on other players and other active objects (move in unpredictable ways
under their own power) will probably be sent more often, maybe every 1/10th
second, so there's not as much latency between one player thrusting and
everyone else seeing him thrust.

Types of packets:
Handshake/initial data transfer (initing players, level, etc)
-Players say hi to the server, authenticate themselves if necessary, send
usernames, send ship selections to the server, server distributes the level and
gameobj data to each client so everything's in sync(?), tells each client
where it's gonna send event info.  Should be done as one long TCP transfer,
probably
-Information needed:

Player Input (keystrokes, probably best done on a key-up key-down basis)
-Two choices.  Either a TCP connection, with a packet sent each time the
player state changes, ie a key is pressed or released.  This may be more
complicated.
Or, a UDP connection, sending the key state (ie bitmap or something) every 1/X
seconds, maybe 1/5 or 1/10.
-Information needed:

Player event (players and objects moving)
-This is the big load.  The server sends a whole swarm of UDP packets to each
client every 1/4 second or so, one for each gameobj near the client (ie within
radar range, near enough for it to see).  The ones further away are updated
less often, probably.  The clients will probably have to do some pre-emptive
calculation for the motions of objects, and adjust accordingly when it
recieves real data from the server (either by jitter/jumps, or trying to do it
smoothly).  This is going to be annoying as hell.
-Information needed:

Player misc
This is for other stuff, information each player needs to have and have in
sync with the server.  Player life changes, energy level and recharge level,
weapon selection, 
-Information needed:

Chat (may include server commands)
-This should be over a TCP connection, perhaps the same one as used for player
input.  It can include server commands and queries.  Pretty simple, really.
-Information needed:
