MODDER'S GUIDE, version 0.0
This is the guide for people who want to mess around, making customized
levels, weapons, ship options, and other such things.

File formats:
Voidrunner can use any audio or image format that SDL can use, which depends
on what options and libraries it was compiled with.  The default distribution
should support the following formats.  If files of these format don't work
and/or cause errors, it's a bug, and should be reported.
Image: PNG, JPG, BMP
Sound: WAV, MIDI, MOD, MP3, OGG

Config files:
(or, how I learned to stop worrying and love the text editor)
Just about all the real data in Voidrunner is kept in config files.  This
includes client and server data, ship and weapon specifications, maps,
animations, and realm information.  These are just plain text files that
anyone, such as yourself, can toy with and customize.  This is deliberate.
Someday, when I get real bored, I'll document the whole mess.
You can generally figure out what kind of file it is by the extension.

.cfg = general config files
.map = map information
.rlm = realm information
.wep = weapon information
.shp = ship information
.obj = object information
.ani = animation

These conventions only exist to be handy for people.  The program doesn't care
in the least.

However, what the program DOES care about, is that the config directory for
the client and server is EXACTLY the same.  Every file on the server must
exist for the client, and vice versa.  Even if you create an empty file in one
or the other, you can screw things up in Undefined Ways.  
Technical explination: This is because the programs have to talk to each
other, and tell each other what an object is.  They do this by sending a
number back and forth that referrs to what config file should be used to
represent the object.  If the server has config files a, b, and d, and the
client has config files a, b, c, and d, then the server will say "config file
3", which to it means d, but to the client means c.  There are clever ways
around this, but they'd be a pain in the ass to do.

The program should check to make sure each side has the same config files, and
probably will someday, but not right now.
